This is a question about superstition. How can we eliminate superstition?
The question comes from the user "Bang Lang Xanh" (
Green Lilac). "Hello Ms. Yen, I have a
question. My mother-in-law
passed away a year ago, but today my child
went to her grandmother's house to make glutinous rice dumplings.
People here are saying that we shouldn't
do that until the family has
finished the exhumation process. There are so many
terrible procedures. Then there are
things like, if the grave collapses, they
build a new grave before 49 days have passed. There are so many
other procedures, for example, if the
child dies before the parents die, or
if the parents haven't been exhumed, the child can't be
exhumed either. So, with all these procedures,
how can we avoid
falling into these superstitious customs?
These are called outdated customs, created by one person and
then followed by many others.
For example, this glutinous rice dumpling thing, if
someone dies today, they make one and then the whole family disappears."
Eating glutinous rice balls (bánh trôi nước) is
said to bring misfortune, and after eating them,
people get sick, so they abstain from eating them.
For example, if someone in the family gets sick, they
say it's because they ate those glutinous rice balls.
It just gradually spreads and becomes a superstitious
custom. It's not difficult at all.
To avoid
these superstitious customs, we
must learn about karma: cause and effect, this
cause and effect, that cause and effect. Then we
won't believe in unclear things,
things
we can't explain. We
must learn about karma. For example, what do the
dead need from us, and
what do they do to us? Yen also told a story to the
audience: when her older sister
died, according to the custom, you shouldn't
go to the grave for 49 days to weed or do
anything like that. That day,
Yen's eyesight became blurry; by 11 or 12
noon, she couldn't see anything anymore. Back then, the
car-branded eye drops were newly released, and even using them
didn't work. Yen had a
dream about...  It was at the grave that Yen
said the grass on her sister's grave was growing
so well. Even before 49
days had passed, the grass was already thriving. Then
Dung told Yen, "It's better if you go
up and see your sister's grave yourself,
otherwise no amount of medicine will
cure it." So Yen went up there. And indeed,
the grave was overgrown with grass like this. After clearing the grass, her
eyesight improved. The medicine and all that
stuff... it's not right.
Because people cling to the grave,
they cling to the tombstone as
their eyes, that's because of that attachment.
If the tombstone is the eye, then the
grass grows too much. People
can't see anything from the tombstone, but because they feel
sorry for you and have a connection, they make
your eyes blurry, it's just to cover it, not to hurt. So after clearing the
grass, no medicine needed, and everything was
back to normal. Yen had to leave it
like that for dozens of days, dozens of days, constantly applying
medicine and eye drops, but it didn't get better. All sorts of
things, but it still didn't work.  They can't
see anything, they just go there and their eyes are completely blocked.
That's why we have to
base it on reality. Now, when we study
Buddhism, the spirits of the deceased, before they are
enlightened, will cling to the grave. If they haven't been
reborn as a human or ascended to
heaven, but are reborn as a hungry ghost,
they will cling to the grave. And what will they cling to? They will cling to the vision,
they see it as a tombstone, an eye,
it must have a vision. So we should be
relaxed. So, we should
enlighten the spirits at the grave, only on the color of the grave.
If the spirit of our family is being
prayed for, we will enlighten them so they
don't cling to the color. But if the whole
family is superstitious and hasn't prayed
for the spirit, we have to go up and
clear the grass on the grave to clean it up. Just say, "Look,
you live at home, you die at home, but
today the house has collapsed. I'm going up here
to add soil and sand and make it neat." Then they will be
happy. But if you
touch it without asking and
they cling to it, there will be problems. That
's natural.  Many people
know that such a phenomenon happens.
Therefore, the idea of ​​offering
glutinous rice dumplings has nothing to do with
the grave. People eat whatever they like, that's all.
But when a family member
dies, whatever food you prepare, remember to
offer it as a sacrifice. That's a sign of your good intentions and you'll
gain merit. Because you don't know if they're
still at home or not, you
don't know what their preferences are. If,
after death, they're reborn as a
ghost and they like a particular
flavor, then that flavor
will trigger another hunger pang.
So, when they're hungry, just offer whatever you have. It's best to offer
whatever you have. They wo
n't hold a grudge. But don't
kill living beings. If you kill them,
their karma will change
immediately. Their karma will become heavier. To
eliminate superstition,
we must base our actions on the
true law of cause and effect. Based on
Buddhist teachings, we must address the attachment of sentient beings to the law of cause and
effect.  Doing virtuous deeds
naturally brings blessings. Just do
virtuous things, for example, how you care for
the deceased. If you do
virtuous things, blessings will come. It's not
about the rice dumplings, or this, or
that, or whether you're respectful
or not. There are so
many superstitious things that we
don't learn about Buddhism. So,
try to learn about the law of karma. Understand
the karma of sentient beings
in all realms. Knowing the karma
of sentient beings in all realms, you will
know how to behave towards yourself, live
ethically towards the deceased, and
live ethically in all
your relationships. Then you will have blessings and
avoid misfortunes. That's it, if you
learn about the law of karma, it's like
[music].